So I briefly touched
on some security concerns,
or problems you might be facing when working
with GitHub actions, and adding your own Workflows.
And I wanna start with script injection,
and show you a concrete example of how a Workflow
could be affected by script injection,
and how you can defend against script injection.
For that, I prepared another example project,
which you find attached with two example Workflow files.
There isn't actually any real code
because this project isn't about code, or running tests,
but it's about some workflows,
and potential security issues.
And right now the script injection Workflow file here
is interesting for us.
It's a super simple Workflow,
but it is vulnerable to script injection.
And I'll show you how script injection works
in a couple of seconds.
So here this Workflow simply runs whenever
a new issue is open for the GitHub Repository
in which this code is stored.
And then here I perform one simple step where I extract
the title of the issue that was created,
and I store it in a temporary variable here in my shell.
And then I have a simple, if check here in the shell,
so this is not the if field on a step, but some command
inside of the shell that's being executed where I compare
that issue title that was stored in this variable
to this texture to be precise.
I'm checking whether it contains the word bug,
and if it does contain the word bug, I'm outputting issue
is about a bug, otherwise I'm outputting issue,
it's not about a bug.
And of course this is a dummy Workflow,
in reality, we could start adding some labels to the issue,
to add the bug label for example.
And today is indeed something we'll do
in that other Workflow, which we'll explore later,
but here I'm just outputting this dummy message.
So to see this all in action, I'll initialize this
as a Git Repository, and create my initial commit.
And now I wanna link it to a remote Repository of course.
And for that I'll create a new Repository here,
GH Security, could be a public, or private Repository.
Here, I'll keep it a public Repository,
but it doesn't matter.
And I'll then create that Repository, and wrap that link,
and add it as a remote Repository,
and then I'll of course also push my code
to that Repository, and with that, the code is there,
and we also added these two workflows.
Now the first Workflow,
this script injection example Workflow will execute whenever
a new issue is created.
Actually the other Workflow will also run when an issue
is created, but we can ignore that Workflow for now.
And here, I'll add a new issue,
where I will simply say something is wrong.
So a very simple title, no content,
we could add some content, but it's not important here.
And if I add this issue,
you will see that both workflows run,
and right now we're only interested
in the script injection example.
And there we'll see that once this starts to run,
it will simply perform this if check, everything works,
it stored the title in this issue title variable,
and everything worked as expected,
and we got the output issue is not about a bug,
because the word bug was not part of the issue title.
So that's working as intended here.
Now let me show you how we could inject a script.
And for that I'm going to open another issue here,
and now I'll use a different title.
I'll type A, or B, C ,does not matter,
but I'll have A, then double quotes, then a semi colon,
and then for example, echo got your secrets,
and then one double quote.
This might look strange, but it is a valid title,
but it will do something bad to our Workflow.
If I submit this issue, the Workflows run again,
and again, we're still interested
in the script injection example here,
and there we'll see that as this runs, if we wait for it
to run here, after it finished, got your secrets
is being output here.
Because I injected some code that was executed,
because of the title I set,
because what my title, this title here,
did to this Workflow, is the way I wrote it.
This first double quote here simply closes
the double quotes related to this first line
of my run command.
So here I have a opening double quote,
then this double quote here after A, simply closes this.
So what I'm doing with this title here,
is I'm setting issue title to just A.
That's what's happening here.
Then I add this semi colon to start a new command,
and that new command is simply that I output,
echo got your secrets.
And then I got one double quote here so that overall
I am simply closing this entire statement,
and I make sure that my job won't fail,
that my step won't fail.
But here, I'm then executing this injected command,
this echo command, and of course an echo command
isn't too harmful, but it was just an example.
I could also open an issue where I use the same trick
to use curl, which can be used to send an HTTP request,
to send a request to my badsite.com,
and append some query parameter, for example, ABC,
which I set equal
to the interpolated AWS access key ID variable.
If I know that your Workflow uses this environment variable,
I can extract it, and send it to my own website like this
by injecting this code.
And of course that's just one example,
I could be extracting any environment variable here,
and I could be doing all kinds of other things.
I could write a command that looks into your code base,
and extracts data from there,
or that uses the GitHub arrest API to change some action,
or Repository settings.
I could be injecting any kind of code here,
and that's why this is really dangerous.
Now why is this working here though?
Because of the code I wrote here.
This code here, which comes after run,
is executed in the shell of this runner machine.
And here I'm getting the title of the issue
that was created, and it's being inserted in this command
that's being executed.
At the point of time the command will be executed,
the actual title will have been interpolated already.
So therefore the title is treated as part of the command
in the end.
That's why we're having this problem here.
Now protecting against this attack is quite easy though.
You could be using some action instead of your own command.
If you had an action that does what you wanna do,
that would be better because if you just passed a title
as a input to the action, it will not be executed
in any shell, but instead it will be extracted,
and handled by GitHub, and will never reach a shell.
But if you must use your own command, it's better to add
an environment variable, for example title,
and set this equal to this issue title like this,
and then you can get rid of that line down there,
because we're setting the variable up here now
as an environment variable for this step,
and here we can then just use this title variable.
If I do that, we'll no longer have this injection problem
because now this title here, the title that's set
for the issue will be evaluated,
and used outside of this shell.
And here will of course then still use the title,
but it will be treated as text here, as a string,
and it will not interact
with this script generation process.
So if you are using user generated values
like the title of an issue, it's strongly recommended
that you first store them in an environment variable,
before using those values anywhere in the commands
you are executing.
With this approach here, if I create a new commit,
protect against script injection,
and I push this, you will see that if I create an issue
with exactly that title again, which previously did then run
this echo command, if I create another issue
with that same title, and therefore of course
my actions execute again, you will see
that the script injection example will now still execute,
but will now not execute that echo command
that I tried to inject.
Here, you see that instead it just ran my if check here,
and it did not, echo got your secrets.
We instead stored this in this environment variable,
and therefore protected against this injection.
So script injection is one potential problem
you should be aware of, and you can defend against it
by using actions instead of using your own run commands,
or using environment variables
where you store user entered data before using it.